18.

Movie Name: The Third Man

Release date of the movie: 1 September 1949 (United Kingdom)

Movie genre: film noir

Movie dialogue: Harry Lime: “Don’t be so gloomy. After all, it’s not that awful. As the fella says, in Italy for 30 years under the Borgias they had warfare, terror, murder, and bloodshed, but they produced Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, and the Renaissance. In Switzerland they had brotherly love – they had 500 years of democracy and peace, and what did that produce? The cuckoo clock. So long, Holly.”

Scenario Description: Considered one of the best classic thrillers of all time, this movie’s smart plot was decades ahead of its time, inspiring future generations of filmmakers with its flawless black-and-white aesthetic and memorable scenes; namely the famous dialogue on the Ferris wheel.

Holly Martins has arrived in post-World War II Vienna, following an invitation from his old friend Harry Lime. Just after his arrival, Holly is informed that Harry was run over by a truck and died instantly. He assists with the funeral and everyone seems to think that Harry is a criminal. Holly then starts a difficult investigation process to prove the innocence of his best buddy.

After asking around, the protagonist is convinced that his friend isn’t what he used to be. Everything points at Harry being a cruel racketeer who faked his death, so Holly tells one of Harry’s associates that he’ll be around the Ferris wheel waiting for him to clear things up.

Harry, played by no less than Orson Welles, joins Holly at the meeting spot as though everything was normal. Holly starts talking about all the evidence he has found against him; meanwhile, the Ferris wheel starts spinning, and we see the landscape moving behind Harry. He doesn’t seem to care about any of this and threatens Holly’s life if he were to rat him out. The dialogue itself turns very poetic, as Welles’s character is marvelously written, and he carries the conversation like a master of manipulation, while his friend is perplexed at his change of personality.

This is a key moment for the film, in which Welles solidifies his awesome performance and the mystery is cleared.
