

Movie Name: The Master

Release date of the movie: September 14, 2012 (United States)

Movie genre: psychological drama film

Movie dialogue: Lancaster Dodd: “Do you love Doris?”
Freddie Quell: “Yes.”
L: “Is she the love of your life?”
F: “Yes, sir.”
L: “Then why aren’t you with her?”
F: “I don’t know.”
L: “Yes you do. Tell me why you are not with her if you love her so much.”
F: “I told her I’d come back and I never went back and now I just… I gotta get back to her.”
L: “Why don’t you go back?”
F: “I don’t know.”
L: “Close your eyes. Starting now, you are not to blink. If you blink we go back to the start.”

Scenario Description: If somebody asked me what this movie is about, I’ll probably stand still while my eye twitches and my mind struggles to form a sentence that doesn’t sound totally crazy. I would probably end up saying: “It’s about a crazy guy who makes his own booze, who boards a strange boat (owned by a cult) by mistake and ends up befriending the leader. Certified great film, bro.” Although my outline doesn’t sound very convincing, “The Master” is a spectacular piece of art.
The dialogue scene takes place in said boat; after Freddie Quell (played by Joaquin Phoenix) shows up on accident, he encounters Lancaster Dodd (Philip Seymour Hoffman) and they hit it off due to both being crazy, but in different ways.
Lancaster proceeds to psychoanalyze Freddie in an unusual way; he asks a series of questions in order to find out who he really is and to look for the root of his problems. When Lancaster feels that Freddie is lying, he asks the same question again, and again, until he gets a satisfying answer. Lancaster then tells Freddie to not blink, and if he does, he would start the questioning all over again. This demand adds more tension to the already fervent situation.
The actors deliver the best performances of their respective careers. Hoffman is serious and demanding, while Phoenix is insane and unstable. They make a frightening combination in this scene; along with minimal lightning and a great script, it’s only topped by the number one on this list.
