

Movie Name: Casablanca

Release date of the movie: January 23, 1943 (United States)

Movie genre: American romantic drama

Movie dialogue: Ilsa: “But what about us?”
Rick: “We’ll always have Paris. We didn’t have, we, we lost it until you came to Casablanca. We got it back last night.”
I: “When I said I would never leave you.”
R: “And you never will. But I’ve got a job to do, too. Where I’m going, you can’t follow. What I’ve got to do, you can’t be any part of. Ilsa, I’m no good at being noble, but it doesn’t take much to see that the problems of three little people don’t amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world. Someday you’ll understand that.”

Scenario Description: Holding the unbeaten record of the world for “most times the movie’s title is mentioned in its runtime”, “Casablanca” is really the classic of classics. People don’t usually think that is the best movie ever made, but within its historical context, “Casablanca” set the tone for decades of cinema to come.
American Rick Blaine (Humphrey Bogart) and his squeeze Ilsa Lund (Ingrid Bergman) were forced to flee Paris just when their relationship was consolidating, because Hitler just couldn’t go down without committing every crime imaginable, he also had to cockblock Humphrey Bogart. However, Ilsa suddenly decides to ditch him with a letter, which is the equivalent of sending your loved one a Snapchat of you raising your middle finger as a breakup tactic.
They see each other again, after a long time, in Rick’s popular nightclub. He possesses some special visas that Ilsa and her revolutionary husband need in order to escape from the Third Reich persecution and flee to the United States. He’s reluctant to give up those documents, because of the great harm Ilsa caused him; Bogart’s character often states that, after what happened to him, he only cares about himself.
However, in the final scene, Rick makes a huge sacrifice for the greater good. He was planning to give Ilsa’s husband the visa but stay with his former girlfriend in Casablanca, because she claimed she still loved him. At the moment of truth, he gives them both the visas and stays alone, with one of the most memorable lines in the history of film.

