

Movie Name: Goodfellas

Release date of the movie: September 19, 1990 (United States)

Movie genre: American biographical crime drama

Movie dialogue: Tommy DeVito: “No, no, I don’t know, you said it. How do I know? You said I’m funny. How the fuck am I funny, what the fuck is so funny about me? Tell me, tell me what’s funny!” Henry Hill: [long pause] “Get the fuck out of here, Tommy!” T: [everyone laughs] “Ya motherfucker! I almost had him, I almost had him. Ya stuttering prick ya. Frankie, was he shaking? I wonder about you sometimes, Henry. You may fold under questioning.”

Scenario Description: In an attempt to reprise the role of “himself”, Joe Pesci plays a psycho mobster named Tommy, who’s as crazy as he’s funny, although Pesci’s character is in denial of those aspects of his personality.

Martin Scorsese structures this dialogue scene wonderfully, using two camera setups that allow us to see each character’s reactions.

Tommy is telling a story to a group of other mobsters in a restaurant, about how he refused to be interrogated by cops when they approached him as he was resting in a park. Everyone is laughing due to the actor’s hilarious way of telling the tale and Henry Hill (played by Ray Liotta) instinctively says to Tommy that he’s funny, who replies, “Funny how?” Henry doesn’t know how to answer and starts mumbling, so Tommy questions him again with a bit of anger in his voice, as silence takes over the table.

Soon enough, Henry finds out that Tommy is only messing with him and everybody starts laughing again. However, we also see how much of a lunatic Tommy is, which makes us wonder if Henry is safe by his side.

This scene is based on a real experience Joe Pesci had when working in a restaurant. He told a mobster that he was funny and things went downhill from there, as the guy didn’t take the compliment too fondly. The director didn’t add this bit to the filming schedule, only he and Joe knew about it, so the other actors improvised around Pesci’s great performance, and their reactions are real and priceless.

Scorsese portrays the relationship between these two in a single masterful dialogue that, on top of being amusing, establishes the movie’s whole rhythm, which is dynamic and unexpected.
