

Movie Name: There Will Be Blood

Release date of the movie: December 26, 2007 (United States)

Movie genre: epic period drama film 

Movie dialogue: Eli Sunday: “If you would just take…”
Plainview: “You lose.”
E: “…this lease, Daniel…”
P: “Drainage! Drainage, Eli, you boy. Drained dry. I’m so sorry. Here, if you have a milkshake, and I have a milkshake, and I have a straw. There it is, that’s a straw, you see? Watch it. Now, my straw reaches acroooooooss the room and starts to drink your milkshake. I… drink… your… milkshake!” [sucking sound]
Author Bio: Juan studies philosophy. He love films and music and plans to go to film school with his cat.

Scenario Description: As the title suggests, blood is certainly in this movie, though it’s represented by oil. The drillers baptize their children with the chemical and a variety of religious references are made throughout the film that confirm this analogy.
One of them is the conflict between the oil tycoon and protagonist Daniel Plainview (played by Daniel Day-Lewis) and rural priest Eli Sunday (Paul Dano). Eli acts humble and peaceful upon Daniel’s visit to extract oil located on the priest’s family propriety. However, it’s clear that Eli is just as petty and egocentric as Daniel, he just chooses to hide this fact under the veil of religion, while Daniel disguises himself as a family man.
Just when greed finally corrupts Daniel’s entire spirit, Eli chooses to pay him a visit in his fancy home bowling alley, in an attempt to sell him an oil business. Daniel notices that the priest is desperate, so he says that he will agree to the deal if Eli admits that his faith is a farce. After a moment of doubt, Eli accepts his conditions, putting money over his life’s passion. Daniel then confesses that he has already drained the oil well that he’s offering, thus completely destroying the young priest. He goes maniacal and busts Eli’s head with a bowling pin.
The scene’s build-up is fantastic. The conflict between these two goes way back, and is finally resolved in the grittiest way possible. Both performances are spectacular, especially the one from Daniel Day-Lewis, who earned his second Oscar for Best Actor for this role. He’s cruel and soulless as he crushes his counterpart with anger and satisfaction. The cinematography is stunning throughout the whole film, where every despicable act is committed in plain sight, like there’s no escape from the guilt and shame.
